[Music]
hey 12 great inventions we can thank
India for we all know that India is one
of the oldest civilizations in the world
with a super rich culture in history but
did you know that some of the stuff you
use every single day was invented in
this country from the buttons on your
shirt to the shampoo in your shower
watch this video till the end to find
out what brilliant things we can thank
India for oh and don't forget to
subscribe to our Channel and turn on
post notifications to keep up with our
updates all right number one the zero
[Music]
people in ancient times had always
thought that there should be some sort
of a sign to indicate nothing well their
worries were put to rest in the 5th
century AD when ru bata an Indian genius
of math and astronomy invented the zero
as a symbol to represent nothing it made
addition subtraction and a slew of other
mathematical operations a whole lot
easier you can see the oldest zero in
existence carved in the wall of a temple
in Gwalior India if you're not a big fan
of math and the invention of zero seems
like nothing too important to you just
think without it we would have no binary
system and no computers how do you like
that zero now number two rulers the
Indus Valley Civilisation was using
rulers in 1500 BC and earlier made from
ivory these rulers were found during
excavations in what is present-day
Pakistan and northwestern India
apparently they were widely used in
architecture with pretty amazing
accuracy they had units corresponding to
1.3 2 inches that were marked with
extremely precise subdivisions within
five thousandth of an inch
[Music]
number three chess this all-time top
game for intellectuals is also an Indian
invention its ancestor was called
chaturanga and it was a strategic board
game popular during the Gupta Empire
around six century AD like the chess we
know today this game had various pieces
with different value and capabilities it
also had an important King figure and
winning the game depended on the fate of
the king another popular board game
brought to us by India is snakes and
ladders the original version was called
moksha pod and it was invented by a 13th
century poet and saint by the name of
John dev the snake stood for vices while
ladders were virtues during India's time
under British rule the game made its way
to England and later to the US number
for plastic surgery in the sixth century
BC an indian physician named Sushruta
created a huge reference book on
medicine and surgery it was one of the
world's earliest works of his kind
Sushruta often called the father of
surgery in his home country described
the use of hundreds of medicinal plants
and instructions for performing surgical
procedures including nose reconstruction
and skin transplantation from one part
of the body to another the original
method of rhinoplasty that involved
taking a piece of skin from the forehead
to reconstruct the nose is even still
used today
but back then nose jobs were done to
help people who had been deprived of
their noses as a punishment for theft or
adultery ooh
how times have changed number 5 cataract
surgery
Sushruta not only invented plastic
surgery but also performed the first
cataract surgery he used a curved needle
to remove the lens from the affected eye
this revolutionary procedure soon became
popular outside of India patients and
doctors from around the world visited
the surgeon to get operations done and
learn from his experience the genius
surgeon never turned anyone away he said
that he got all his knowledge from the
god of Ayurvedic medicine Dhanvantari
number six wireless communication when
you think of the pioneer of radio
communication guglielmo marconi probably
immediately comes to mind and that's for
good reason of course he even received
the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1909 for
his innovative work but Sir John is
Chandra Bose presented his discovery of
radio communication wave to the public
in 1895 he sent an electromagnetic wave
across 75 feet at the town hall in
Calcutta the wave passed through walls
rang a bell and ignited some gunpowder
Marconi used boses invention the mercury
coherer as a pattern to build his
operational two-way radio Bose never
patented his work so he was only
credited for his discovery a century
later number seven the USB the USB or
universal serial bus is a way more
recent invention than wireless
communication of course it was brought
to us by a je by an Indian American
computer genius that was working as an
engineer for Intel back in the 1990s he
came up with the idea of a universal
port for devices as he was putting an SD
card into his computer remember those
things
the device instantly became a huge hit
but himself didn't get money or official
recognition for his invention as he's
always insisted that it was the result
of team work today the amount of USB
devices used worldwide is over 10
billion items making it the most used
computer gadget out there
[Music]
number eight yoga hit that like button
if you've ever tried yoga I have if you
keep practicing it and see the positive
changes in your life then you should
thank India for it the first yoga guru
was Lord Shiva also known as Adi yoga
people in northern India were practicing
this spiritual exercise over 5,000 years
ago the word yoga was even mentioned in
the Vedas India's oldest sacred text the
Brahmins
further developed the art of yoga and
documented their experiences in a
treatise with over 200 records Indian
Prime Minister Narendra Modi came up
with the idea to celebrate yoga day on
June 21st and it's now an actual
international holiday with millions of
followers number 9 natural fibers
nothing feels better than the touch of
natural cotton on your skin we could
have been deprived of this situation if
it weren't for the bright minds of India
unlike the ancient Greeks who wore
animal skins the Indians started
cultivating cotton back in the 5th and
4th centuries BC they used cotton
threads to produce fabrics that soon
became a huge hit in the Mediterranean
and beyond jute and wool also have their
origins in India Kashmir the finest and
most exclusive type of wool actually
comes from the Kashmir region of India
number 10 flush toilets you can probably
see by now that the Indus Valley
Civilisation came up with so many genius
inventions and flush toilets were one of
them believe it or not home toilets
connected to a complicated sewage system
with canals irrigation and smart water
management existed in the land of spices
over 5000 years ago
pure genius
number eleven shampoo the word shampoo
comes from the Hindi word shampoo which
means to massage or knead the substance
was invented in India in 1762 and was
originally used for head massages hence
the name the first shampoo was made of
natural oils and herbs British colonial
traders fell in love with the idea and
brought it back with them to England it
took years for the original head massage
oil to evolve into shampoo as we know it
today but fact is fact
you have the Indians to thank for the
beauty and cleanliness of your hair
[Music]
number twelve buttons this clothing
staple is at the top of our list so
simple yet revolutionary the first
button were found during excavations in
mohenjo-daro one of the largest
settlements in the Indus Valley
Civilisation yet again over 5000 years
ago buttons were made of seashells and
used as an ornament and not for
fastening clothes but they had two holes
in the middle right from the start so
are there any inventions on the list
that you can't live without let's
discuss it in the comments section be
sure to hit like and share this video if
you found it useful and if you're new
here subscribe to our channel to not
miss any of our cool updates remember
life is always better on the bright side
[Music]